# Case Study: GPR data processing for mapping rebar configuration on the bridge

## Chapter 1. Introduction

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Here in the FHWA CHARISMA Github repository, we provide a Python-based case study for processing raw GPR data to locate the rebar configuration of a concrete bridge. We discuss detailed step-by-step tutorials with actual case studies on 1) Experimental lab specimens and 2) Actual bridge (I-10 Mississippi). We first discuss the data (dimensions, physical meaning, and sizes), and then see how the data is being processed (i.e., gain, dewow, time-zero correction, and F-K migration) with visual plots and figures. Finally, we analyze the results to locate the rebar configuration.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Ground Penetrating Radar (GPR) is a non-destructive evaluation technique to investigate objects or structures buried underground. The basic principle of GPR involves the transmission of high-frequency radio waves (10 MHz to 2.6 GHz) into the ground. When these waves encounter subsurface materials with different electrical properties, the waves are reflected to the surface. The GPR system records the time it takes for these reflections to return, and this information is used to create a profile of the subsurface.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;While the antenna is traveling the bridge horizontally (along the x-axis), the transmitter (Tx) of the antenna emits the electromagnetic wavelet and it penetrates through the ground (z-axis). The reflected signal from the object in the subsurface is recorded into the receiver (Rx) of the antenna. Thus, the recorded data contains multiple reflected wavelets with respect to the distance along x and z (note that z also indicates wave propagation time). Each reflected wavelet as a function of discrete time is called an “A-scan”. “B-scan” is obtained by stitching multiple A-scans together along the survey line (x) and assigning a color (black to white) to the wave amplitude. Since the B-scan provides 2D vertical information underground, it is commonly used to analyze the system or structure. “C-scan” refers to the horizontal view of the specific horizontal layer of the subsurface. Figure 1 helps us understand the definition of each type of scan from GPR.

